## Event Listeners

Event listeners are simple tiny little "ears" we attach to a DOM node. This little ears will listen for a specific action (i.e. event) from the user such as a click, hovering your mouse over the element, etc.). Keep in mind that these can be applied to *any* element, not just clickable elements like a `button` or `a` tag.

Now, here is a [very long list of supported event listener types](http://wwww.google.com) to satisfy a developer's wildest dreams, but for the scope of this interactive experience, we'll stick with the most common: the `click` event.

Adding a click event to a node is fairly simple process with jQuery. They don't even use the word 'event' or 'listener' at all unlike its vanilla JS counterpart.

Here is how we can attach an event listener to a DOM node so we can run a `function` after -- and only after -- the user clicks on the button.

~~~js
var buttonNode = $('button');

buttonNode.on('click', function(){
  console.log('Somebody clicked me! Was it you?')
});
~~~

As you can tell, it's pretty easy to read right? You can almost tell exactly what's gonna happen even if you were a complete outsider that just peeked at a bunch of code: "On click of this 'buttonNode', something looks like it's gonna happen."

And that's exactly what it is. The button has now been given a little ear to listen for clicks on itself, and *every time* that happens - notice I said every time - our callback function will run.

One last thing to remember: You can *only* use the `on` special 'method' (e.g. a property that runs a function inside an object is called a method) whenever we are working with a jQuery object selection. 
