## IF/ELSE

If/else statements are another foundational concept in programming. It's how the browser determines which code blocks to run based on whether a condition has been met or not.

Sometimes understanding everything about if/else can be quite complicated and getting into very muddy waters. We'll try to break down all their parts into simple core ideas in here.

Let's look at an example:

[TODO: EDIT EXAMPLE BELOW]
~~~js
var counter = 1;

// Pretend we have some code in between here where the user's actions might toggle the value of
// the variable 'focusedMode' either to 'true' or 'false'

if (focusedMode === 1) {
  console.log("No phone cals allowed.");
} else if (focusedMode === 2) {
  console.log("Phone calls are OK.")
} else if (focusedMode === 3) {
  console.log("Phone calls are OK.")
} else {
  console.log("Another number.")
}
~~~

Let's say we want to do a check for a certain condition and only run a block of code if that condition is met. In the example above, we are checking whether the variable `focusedMode` is true or not. In this case we'll pretend that value can be changed at certain points during a user session.

To do a conditional check, we use the keyword `if` followed by an opening and closing `()` where we'll put the condition we want to check for -- followed by an opening and closing `{}` where we'll place the code we want to run if that condition is met.

As you can tell in the example above, we use the `===` operator to tell Javascript that we are doing a comparison of values*. Remember that up to this point we've only been using a single `=` to *assign* a value. When using 3 `=` symbols together, Javascript will compare the values of both sides and evaluate it to see whether it's true or false.

If the results is true, that code block gets run, otherwise we move on down to the next check to see if that matches. Depending on how many other `else if` blocks you have on your page, it'll keep going down until it matches one.

If there are no matches at all, the program will default to the final `else` block.

We can check for multiple conditions inside an `if` or `else if` statement to make sure either at least ONE condition is met, or ALL conditions must be met. We do this by using the `||` and `&&` respectively. Here's a simple example:


[TODO: Edit this example to something better]
~~~js

var flag = true;
var counter = 1;

if (flag === true || counter === 1) {
  console.log("No phone cals allowed.");
} else if (flag === true && counter ===1) {
  console.log("Phone calls are OK.")
} else if (flag === true) {
  console.log("Phone calls are OK.")
} else {
  console.log("Phone calls are OK.")
}
~~~

As you can see from the example above, we use the `||` (called `or` operator in Javascript) to literally say the following: If this is true OR this is true, execute the code below. With the `or` operator, you can check for as many conditions as you need, as long as only one of those evaluates to true, your code will be executed.

On the other hand, whenever we use the `&&` (called the `and` operator), ALL conditions must evaluate to `true` in order for your code block to run. If even ONE of the conditions fails (evaluates to false), Javascript will simply skip that block and keep moving down the page towards the next if statement block if there is one. 

And as before, if no conditions are met, the code block in the final `else` statement will be executed instead.


