## Closest and find

OK, I know we've had peanut butter and jelly references already during our time together, but if there was a *real* pair of buddies that go together like PB&J, it's the `closest` and `find` methods. Seriously, `closest` and `find` are like Sherlock Homes and Watson. Just a pair of good buddies that love a good trail search.

Remember when we talked about how the DOM was basically one giant object created from all the elements in your page? Well, since our page (aka our document) can have many nested tags like `div`s, inside `div`s, `li` inside `ul` and infinite other combinations based on what you need your page to look like, our DOM object also nests all those elements as properties and it starts resembling a virtual tree of sorts. [I've actually written a simple article on understanding the DOM] a bit better if you'd like to know more about it.

For now though, just know that the DOM resembles the structure of your HTML in some way. And it's for this reason it's important to know how to 'move up' or 'move down' to find the right element you are looking for. In other words, think of it like a much nicer game of 'search & destroy.' We are not destroying anything of course, we are just looking up and down the DOM tree until we find the right HTML elment to do cool stuff with.

## Moving up the tree

OK, what does it mean exactly to 'move up' the DOM tree? Let's take a step back for minute and look a a very real world example:

~~~html
<ul class="menu-navigation">
  <li>
    <a href="#">Home</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">About</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Services</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
    </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Contact</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
  </li>
</ul>
~~~

This is a very common thing to come across: A primary navigation of items inside a `ul` that has a hidden `div` with class `submenu` with additional content (e.g. another list of items). Of course, the submenus are not initially visible, they are only supposed to be revealed when the user clicks their mouse on each `a` item.

How could we pull this off? We need to make sure that the correct `submenu` container gets shown when the user initiates the click event. Maybe we could try something like this:

~~~js

$('.menu-navigation > li > a').on('click', function(){
  $('.submenu').show();
});

~~~

Well, that *kinda* works, but not really. By using jQuery, we've easily attached an event listener to all matching `a` links without necessary creating a loop (just another of the neat things jQuery can do), but no matter *which* menu item we click on, the submenu will always show only for the first item.

And the reason is simple: When you create a jQuery object selection for `submenu`, jQuery will look for the very first match in the entire document and apply the `show` method to that container. Therefore toggling its visibility to `display: block` and showing it.

This is obviously not right. We want to toggle the correct submenu based on which item was clicked. We need a way to tell jQuery that based on *which* `a` tag was clicked, we need to first go up to the parent of that particular item -- in this case the `li` element -- and only within that element, find the matching `submenu` container and apply `show` to it and leave the rest alone.

And that's where `closest` and `find` come into play.

## Closest

When using `closest`, jQuery will start going *up* the DOM tree hierarchy from where your selection is and find a matching selector that you pass as a parameter (similar to `addClass` or `removeClass`). The only difference is that instead of a plain stirng, you need to pass it the full CSS selector with a period in the case of classes (e.g. '`.submenu`).

Once jQuery has a match, it'll stop there and put its focus on that element instead. At that point you'll have access to any and all jQuery methods to use on that newly found selection instead.

Let's look at a simple example of this:

~~~html
<div class="grandpa-wrapper">
  <div class="parent-wrapper">

    <button>find my grandpa</button>
  </div>

</div>

~~~

~~~js
$('button').closest('.grandpa-wrapper');
~~~

The above jQuery selection will first look at button, then start going *up* the DOM tree, go past `parent-wrapper` and then hit the `.grandpa-wrapper` selector, at which point it'll realize its found a match and finally creating a jQuery object selection of that element instead. Now we have access to `.grandpa-wrapper` element and can use any of the jQuery methods mentioned before (`hide`, `show`, `addClass`, `removeClass`, etc.).

This new selector will now act as our default focus point and we can treat just like any other selection.


## Find

On the other hand, `find` is kinda like the complete opposite of `closest`. Instead of going *up* the DOM tree from where your selection is, the `find` method starts looking `down` inside itself to see if it can find your desired parameter selector.

~~~html
<div class="grandpa-wrapper">
  <div class="parent-wrapper">

    <button>find my grandpa</button>
  </div>

</div>
~~~

~~~js
$('.grandpa-wrapper').find('button');
~~~

Here, we are doing the opposite. Our initial selector is the `grandpa-wrapper`, but then we drill down looking for our `button` element using the `find` method. 

Makes sense, right?

### Putting it all together
Now let's go back to our original ask. Show the correct submenu for each `a` tag inside a navigation list.


~~~html
<ul class="menu-navigation">
  <li>
    <a href="#">Home</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">About</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Services</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
    </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Contact</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
  </li>
</ul>
~~~


~~~js
$('.menu-navigation > li > a').on('click', function(){
  $(this).closest('li').find('.submenu').show();
});
~~~

Using the keywords `this` that we discussed in an earlier chapter, we first tell Javascript to create an object selection of where the click event took place -- in this case, our `a` tag.

Next, we traverse up the DOM tree until we find its immediate parent `li` element, and then we drill down to find our desired `submenu`. Our final step is simply toggling that bad boy `on` by using the `show` method.

And like some dark magic, you now have a fully functional navigation with submenu dropdowns that can support any type of content in 3 lines of JS. How cool is that? Good luck doing the same with vanilla Javascript!

[ NEED TO EXPAND ON CHAINING ALL THESE METHODS HERE OR IN AN EALIER CHAPTER!]
