src/lessons/06/md/0.md, before:

## Event Listeners

Event listeners are simple tiny little "ears" we attach to a DOM node. This little ears will listen for a specific action (i.e. event) from the user such as a click, hovering your mouse over the element, etc.). Keep in mind that these can be applied to *any* element, not just clickable elements like a `button` or `a` tag.

Now, here is a [very long list of supported event listener types](http://wwww.google.com) to satisfy a developer's wildest dreams, but for the scope of this interactive experience, we'll stick with the most common: the `click` event.

Adding a click event to a node is fairly simple process with jQuery. They don't even use the word 'event' or 'listener' at all unlike its vanilla JS counterpart.

[ NEED TO WRITE ABOUT FUNCTIONS BEFORE THIS]
Here is how we can attach an event listener to a DOM node so we can run a `function` after -- and only after -- the user clicks on the button.

~~~js
var buttonNode = $('button');

buttonNode.on('click', function(){
  console.log('Somebody clicked me! Was it you?')
});
~~~

As you can tell, it's pretty easy to read right? You can almost tell exactly what's gonna happen even if you were a complete outsider that just peeked at a bunch of code: "On click of this 'buttonNode', something looks like it's gonna happen."

And that's exactly what it is. The button has now been given a little ear to listen for clicks on itself, and *every time* that happens - notice I said every time - our callback function will run.

One last thing to remember: You can *only* use the `on` special 'method' (e.g. a property that runs a function inside an object is called a method) whenever we are working with a jQuery object selection.

Commit message:

Started rough draft on Functions chapter.

src/lessons/06/md/0.md, after:

## Functions

- Setup: Functions are like recipes. They are just a set of steps that we are grouping together and can call at any time by actually 'running' or 'invoking' said function.

- The problem is that with the rise of ES6 and its fancy arrow syntax, it has completely replaced the keyword `function` itself, really forcing your brain to always stop for a second and figure out what this strange hierogliphics(sp?) are before you understand what is happening.

This has been one place where Javascript has gone one step forward, but two steps back when it comes to adoption by others. So while you still have your training wheels on, we'll focus on writing out functions the ol' fashioned way.

This is what a function looks like:

~~~js
function triggerModalPopup(){
  // inside this safe space we'll write out our instructions to the browser to open a modal  
}

triggerModalPopup(); // and this how we'll call our function when we are ready, but more on that later.
~~~

- Talk a bit about the keword 'function' and the syntax for a function. Talk about creating functions without names -- but that must be stored in a variable name instead -- in order to be called later.

- Talk briefly about 'parameters' and how they resemble an input inside a blender.

- Talk about 'return' and how they resemble what comes out of the end of the pipe.
