## Input Parameters and Arguments
A function also has the very special ability to work like a pipeline that can take *one or more values* and return **one** at the end.

To understand this concept a bit better, think of a fruit juicer. You put all your fruits at the top end (i.e. your value inputs), and the final product that gets squeezed out the bottom after is delicious fresh juice (this is called your **returned** value).

We create this returned value with the `return` keyword inside our function. We'll discuss this in greater detail in a bit.

Let's look at an example first:

~~~js
function makeGreenJuice(ingredient1, ingredient2, ingredient3){
  var output = 'This drink contains: ' + ingredient1 + ', ' + ingredient 2 + ' and' + ingredient 3 + '. Enjoy!' 
  
  return output; 
}

makeGreenJuice('apples', 'cucumber', 'celery');
~~~

Here we have a function called `makeGreenJuice`. When a function expects to get one or multiple inputs, these inputs are called **parameters** in Javascript. You see these marked as `ingredient1`, `ingredient2`, and `ingredient3` inside the parenthesis of our function definition.

Once *inside* our function, we'll create an `output` variable that will be *returned* as sentence listing all of the ingredients in this 3-ingredient juice recipe.

As you can see in the example above, we call our `makeGreenJuice` function at the very end by using an opening and closing parenthesis, and then 'passing' it the three ingredients that will become the values for our function inside those parenthesis.

~~~js
makeGreenJuice('apples', 'cucumber', 'celery');
~~~

These values inside the open and closing parenthesis are called **arguments**.

Once the function is called, you could say these **arguments** are magically tele-transported (sorry, I've watched too many space movies recently) to inside the function's parameters at the top where the function is defined and *become* the parameter values. That's how we can then use these values inside the function itself just like we would any other variable.

Here's a simple example:

~~~js
function displayUnreadNotifications(number){
	return 'You have ' + number + ' unread notifications.';
}

displayUnreadNotifications(4); // Console output: 'You have 4 unread notifications'
~~~

Also note how we can return a value directly on one line without even having to necessarily store it inside a variable. I still recommend you do though! This way you can keep everything organized and will make everything click that much sooner while you are still learning the ropes.