## removeClass

OK, now let's say your HTML on the page already has the button with a class of active. You could repeat the exact same process but use the `removeClass` method instead. Javascript would then remove that said class if it actually finds one attached to your element.

~~~html
<button class="btn active">learn more</button>
~~~

~~~~js
  var buttonNode = $('.btn');

  buttonNode.on('click', function(){
    buttonNode.removeClass('active');
  });
~~~~

### One more thing...
As neat as `addClass` and `removeClass` are to get much more specific on the CSS state of your element, sometimes all you really want is a simple toggle.

In other words, each time something is clicked, just toggle its CSS class. You can use `toggleClass` instead just for this use case.

For example, in our example above it would look like this:

~~~~js
  var buttonNode = $('.btn');

  buttonNode.on('click', function(){
    buttonNode.toggleClass('active');
  });
~~~~

All jQuery does in these cases is first looks up if the class on the element exists already. If it does, it'll remove the class. If it doesn't, it'll add the class to the element instead.

Fairly simple, right?

Here's the real power changing classes with Javascript: You have complete control over what your transition or animation looks like since you'll be relying mostly on CSS to create your specific style -- and then simply turning it on or off with JS.

Here's an example I created of a simple menu transition on [Codepen](https://codepen.io/johnludena/pen/VwmzGxj) to show what I'm talking about. We can fine tune our transitions/animations much easier with CSS than we can with Javascript sometimes (not to mention this is also better for a website's speed and performance, but that's a topic for another day).

Feel free to play around in there for a bit if you need to before continuing.

