## Become a jQuery Magician with Show/Hide

- Fool everybody into thinking you actually know Javascript with two simple jQuery methods: `hide` and `show`. 

- When you think about it, almost every interaction on a page is based on hiding and showing stuff. You click here, this appears and something else gets hidden. It's a functionality used across multiple types of website pieces (or components if you want to put your nerdy hat on). Things like modals, tabs, accordions, sliders, etc. They ALL work on this very simple premise.

- With jQuery's `hide` and `show` methods, you'll be a JS wiz kid in no time at all. Let's look at an example of how to use them. First let's take a look at `show`:

~~~html
<button class="btn">learn more</button>
<div class="modal-popup" style="display: none">
  <p>Your modal content here<p>
</div>
~~~

~~~~js
  var buttonNode = $('.btn');

  buttonNode.on('click', function(){
    $('.modal-popup').show();
  });
~~~~

Hopefully, you can kinda tell what's happening here. Your HTML has a button that reads 'learn more' and also a hidden modal popup where you'll school the user on some stuff. Now the modal is hidden by default on page load due to the inline `style` tag that has `display: none` set.

However, just like we did in a previous lesson, we'll add a `click` event listener to our button, and inside our callback function, we'll actually reveal the `.modal-popup` div element. You know how exactly? Easy: All `show` does is set an inline style tag to `display: block`. Voila! Like magic you'll `div` will now show up on click.

OK, let's go for a double whammy here. But what if you want to *close* the modal? Well, let's pretend we have another button inside of your modal:

~~~html
<button class="btn">learn more</button>
<div class="modal-popup" style="display: none">
  <p>Your modal content here</p>
  <button class="close-modal">close</button>
</div>
~~~

It's a simple matter of doing the exact same thing as above but attaching another little 'ear' (i.e. event listener) to a closing button node, but this time instead of using `show`, we'll use `hide` to set the inline style CSS to `display: none`. That's all there is to `hide`.

~~~~js
  var buttonNode = $('.btn');
  var closeModalButton = $('.close-modal');

  buttonNode.on('click', function(){
    $('.modal-popup').show();
  });

  closeModalButton.on('click', function(){
    $('.modal-popup').hide();
  });
~~~~

That's all there is to it!

Are you starting to see the power of Javascript and jQuery when used together? Remember that almost every interaction when doing UI work is some type of hiding and showing stuff. With `show` and `hide` you'll be appear like a JS pro in no time at all.
