## Loops

Loops are one of the quintessential concepts in programming. Without loops, we'd be screwed and doomed to an eternity of long and ardous data entry or repetitive tasks.

Thankfully, loops *do* exist and they help us do exactly that: Loop through items in an array. You can't loop through any other type, only arrays.

## The pain: Repetitive tasks

Imagine you had a job doing data entry (a job I wouldn't wish on my worst enemy) and you had to do a menial, brainless task of grabbing all names in a text file with 10,000 full names and removing the last name.

How long would that take you? And how much would you be hating life at the end of the task and seriously re-considering your life choices up until that point?

Instead, imagine writing a simple function that would do the job for you. And all in a few milliseconds.

You could then spend the rest of the day looking for a better job.

That's why loops are so incredibly cool once you really start to understand them.

However, loops can be tricky to understand in the beginning, so we'll take it nice and easy and walk you through some helpful strategies to help you make your brain turn on the switch for 'loop mode'.


## The solution

Remember that we can only loop over a list of items, and jQuery is nice enough to give us a nice list of items when we look for a selection that has two or more possible matches.

Let's take a look at an earlier example:

~~~js
var fruits = ['Apple', 'Mango', 'Pineapple'];

$(fruits).each(function(fruitIndex, fruitItem){
  // whatever we write inside here will be applied to every member of the array
});
~~~

Let's untangle what's happening above a bit: First, we create a jQuery object selection with a list of items in an array. Then, by using the keyword `each`, we access a special jQuery method (i.e. a function) that will run for *every member of the array*.

Now, remember what we talked about in a previous funciton chapter regarding callback functions? The function that we are passing inside `each` *is* a callback function. A function that will be executed once for every item that is found inside that list.

- Talk about the parameters for .each. (index and item).
- Then loop through all of them with .each. Talk about how JS goes through each item.
- Console.log every item.
- Maybe mention something about 'return' and how it works when looping through each. [MENTION RETURN EXISTS A FUNCTION IN PREVIOUS CHAPTER]
