src/lessons/08/md/0.md, before:

## Loops

Loops are one of the quintessential concepts in programming. Without loops, we'd be screwed and doomed to an eternity of long and ardous data entry or repetitive tasks.

Thankfully, loops *do* exist and they help us do exactly that: Loop through items in an array. You can't loop through any other type, only arrays*.

Imagine you had a job doing data entry (a job I wouldn't wish on my worst enemy) and you had to do a menial, brainless task of grabbing all names in a text file with 10,000 full names and splitting each and every one into a "First Name" and "Last Name" field.

How long would that take you? And how much would you be hating life at the end of the task and seriously re-considering your life choices up until that point?

Instead, imagine writing a simple function that would do the job for you. And all in a few milliseconds.

You could then spend the rest of the day looking for a better job.

**That's** why loops are so incredibly cool once you really start to understand them.

However, loops can be *very* tricky to understand in the beginning, so we'll take it nice and easy and walk you through some helpful strategies to help you make your brain turn on the switch for 'loop mode'.

* = Not 100% true as we can also loop through object keys, not too mention a little thing called 'NodeList', but for the time being just go with it.

Commit message:

Migration of all markdown content to individual lessons.

src/lessons/08/md/0.md, after:

## DOM Node Selections

Now that you have a crash course on Javascript basics, we've finally have come to the good stuff: How to make interactive things happen on the page!

This is when things start getting really fun and you get to actually *see* stuff happen on screen.

But first of all, let's quickly talk about a little thing called the DOM. What the heck is it first of all?

Well, if you recall how objects work from one of our previous lessons, the DOM is just that: One *giant* object that gets created after reading all your HTML, CSS, and Javascript files and then creating virtual "tree" representation of your HTML structure.

Put it this way: If your browser was a famous painter, your files would be the instructions to the painter as to what exactly to "paint" on the canvas, and the resulting picture would be called "the DOM".

I've written more about how this works [here](https://medium.com/@johnludena/javascript-for-designers-101-the-dom-an-illustrated-guide-9c3d60a7fe3). I highly suggest checking it out if you want to learn more about this topic.

So *why* is it necessary to understand what the DOM is in the first place?

It's important because when it comes to creating interactivity with elements on a page – like a button for example – we first need to look for that element and create **a DOM "node"** out of it. "Node" being just the Javascript way to refer to a variable that points to a real HTML element on the page.

In fact, creating a DOM node will always be your first step before doing anything else when making things interactive!
