## The solution

Remember that we can only loop over a list of items, so let's take a look at one of our earlier `fruit` array examples:

~~~js
var fruits = ['Apple', 'Mango', 'Pineapple'];

$(fruits).each(function(index, fruitItem){
  // whatever we write inside here will be applied to every member of the array
});
~~~

Let's untangle what's happening above a bit: First, we create a jQuery object selection with a list of items in an array. Then, by using the keyword `each`, we access a special jQuery method (i.e. a function) that will run for *every member of the array*.

Now, remember what we talked about in a previous funciton chapter regarding callback functions? The function that we are passing inside `each` *is* a callback function. A function that will be executed once for every item that is found inside that list once `each` runs for each item as well.

So what's up with the input parameters `index` and `fruitItem` that we are passing to this callback function?

These two are two parameters you'll always need to specify when using a loop. The first is the current index value of the array member item. If you recall fro our Arrays lesson, every array item has an index 'key' associated with it. The first item in the array has an index of 0, the next one is 1, etc. 

In other words, as we are looping through the array, one of the parameters that'll be available is the index for that array item in case we need it (trust me, there's many times where you'll need it). Many times developers simply call the index parameter `i` to make it shorter. Like any parameter, it can be called *anything*, as long as it makes sense to you and others.

The second parameter is called `fruitItem` in our example. This can also be named just `item` if you want. The name doesn't matter as much as what it stands for: The actual array item that's currently in the loop queue. Whatever we call this is the same name we'll use inside of the function to refer to it (more on this later though).

I personally like to name it as the type of item I'm looping through. Let's say I got an array of names that I'm looping through. Since we are hitting a single name for each loop, I'd probably name my second parameter `name` inside my callback.

One last thing on using the `each` loop inside jQuery. Remember how when we discussed functions we talked about the `return` statement that finally outputted something from our pipeline but could also be used to completely exit out of a function and stop it in its tracks before executing any other code? [DOUBLE CHECK THIS IS TRUE IN PREVIOUS LESSON].

Well, the same concept applies to each in a way. By using a simple `return` inside your `each` function, you will exit out of the *current* item being looped over and goes straight to the next item in the array. [NOT SURE IF THIS IS NECESSARY AT THS POINT, MIGHT BE TOO CONFUSING. REVIEW]

## jQuery Lists (or "Arrays")

That's all well and good but let's look at real world example using DOM elements. Let's say you need to do something with every `li` item inside an `ul`. The HTML looks a bit like this:

~~~~html
<ul class="todos">
  <li>Create interactive course</li>
  <li>Gather feedback</li>
  <li>Make edits and adjustments</li>
  <li>???</li>
  <li>Profit</li>
</ul>
~~~~


~~~~js
var choresList = $('.todos li');

chorestList.each(function(index, chore) {
  console.log(chore);
});
~~~~

Our first step should be simple right? We need to first create an array (or list) of all the `li` items so we can have a list of nodes for each one and then make them do something else (we'll look at this very shortly).

Once we have that, we'll loop over each one and -- for the time being -- just print them out to the console (I promise we are getting to the actual fun stuff). What you'd see printed on the console would be each and every `li` item as our loop goes over every item. 
