## Enter jQuery: The Hero We Don't Deserve

What is jQuery first of all you might ask yourself? Most would refer to it as a "library," but you can think of it as an "add-on" to the browser's built-in Javascript capabilities that allows us to do some really cool things with very little code and in a way that makes a lot of sense for people brand-new to the programming world.

Let's look at the same previous example. Here's how we would create a node selection for our button but with jQuery instead:

~~~js
var buttonNode = $('.btn');
~~~

Yes, the almighty `$` symbol is the way to access the power of jQuery. [Once you have loaded the jQuery library](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-jquery) before your own JS file right before the end of the `</body>` tag, you'll be able to use jQuery's magic in this way.

The `$` symbol followed by a `(` and closing `)` is how you tell jQuery that you are looking to create a specific DOM node selection. What goes inside is a valid CSS selector you want in between single or double quotes (I'm a single-quotes-man myself). And just like CSS, remember you can also target it with any valid CSS selector (i.e. you could use an ID, a class, an attribute, the HTML tag itself, etc.).

If you know and understand the basics of CSS, you are halfway there!

However, it's always better to be *more* specific rather than less. In other words, if the CSS selector you are looking for is far too general, you can unwillingly create bugs for yourself due to multiple nodes being created from matching selections.

Think of it exactly like CSS. If you create a CSS style that is too general, that same style will be applied to every matching HTML element found, right? Same exact thing happens in Javascript-land.