## Adding and removing classes with jQuery

Toggling classes is an extremely powerful method to make some custom interactions incredibly easy by letting our CSS doing the heavy lifting. And this couldn't be easier to do in jQuery by leveraging the `addClass` and `removeClass` methods.

As we saw in our last chapter, `hide` and `show` are very simple and easy to use -- with perhaps one fault: they are a little heavy-handed when it comes to making more subtle or refined interactions. After all, all they are doing are toggling a `display` CSS property to either `none` or `block` respectively.

But it's precisely on those instances when you need a softer touch with a more controlled animation or interaction that leveraging the use of classes -- and toggling those classes on or off -- can take you to the next level of UX 'connoseiur.' 

This is where you start entering unicorn territory.

## addClass
First up, the `addClass` method. Just like `hide` or `show`, it's a method of a jQuery object selelection. It takes only one parameter: a string of the CSS class you want to add to your element.

Adding this class could potentially change the style or look of your element. Let's say we want to set a button an active state to tell the user something they click is now active.

~~~html
<button class="btn">learn more</button>
~~~

~~~css
/* default button style */
.btn {
  background: blue;
  color: white
}

.btn.active {
  background: red;
  color: white
}
~~~

Even though the `button` element only has a class of `btn` on page load, clicking on it will use Javascript to also add another class of `active`, therefore taking on the CSS styles of the more specific `active` style for that same `btn` class.

~~~~js
  var buttonNode = $('.btn');

  buttonNode.on('click', function(){
    buttonNode.addClass('active');
  });
~~~~

Let's say your HTML on the page already has the button with a class of active. You could do repeat the exact same process but use `removeClass` instead. Javascript would then remove that said class if it actually finds one attached to your element.

~~~~js
  var buttonNode = $('.btn');

  buttonNode.on('click', function(){
    buttonNode.removeClass('active');
  });
~~~~

Here's the real power of your toggling classes with Javascript: You have complete control over what your transition or animation looks like since you'll be relying mostly on CSS to create your specific style -- and then simply turning it on or off with JS.

Here's an example I created of a simple speech bubble on [CodePen] (http://www.codepen) to show what I'm talking about. Feel free to play around in there for a bit if you need to before continuing.

### One more thing...
As neat as `addClass` and `removeClass` to get much more specific on the CSS state of your element, sometimes all you really want is a simple toggle. In other words, each time something is clicked, just toggle its CSS class. You can use `toggleClass` instead just for this use cases. For example, in our example above it would look like this:

~~~~js
  var buttonNode = $('.btn');

  buttonNode.on('click', function(){
    buttonNode.toggleClass('active');
  });
~~~~

All jQuery does in these cases is first do a check for the class that you are toggling on your specified element. If the results are false, it'll add the class. Otherwise, the class should already be there, in which case it'll remove it. That's pretty much it.
