## Moving up the tree

OK, what does it mean exactly to 'move up' the DOM tree? Let's take a step back for minute and look a a very real world example:

~~~html
<ul class="menu-navigation">
  <li>
    <a href="#">Home</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">About</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Services</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
    </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#">Contact</a>
    <div class="submenu" style="display: none">Submenu content</div>
  </li>
</ul>
~~~

This is a very common thing to come across at some point: A primary navigation of items inside a `ul` where each item also has a hidden submenu `div` container in addition to its own menu item.

The request for us will be something you've encountered a million times on a million websites: When you click over a menu item, show the submenu ONLY for that particular menu item.

So how could we pull this off?

First, we need to make sure that the correct `submenu` container gets shown when the user initiates the click event. Maybe we could try something like this:

~~~js

$('.menu-navigation > li > a').on('click', function(){
  $('.submenu').show();
});

~~~


Well, that *kinda* works, but not really. By using jQuery, we've easily attached an event listener to all matching `a` links (just another of the neat things jQuery can do), but no matter *which* menu item we click on, ALL submenus will always show up no matter which link we click!

That's obviously not right.

And the reason is simple: When you create a jQuery object selection for `submenu`, jQuery will look for **all matching nodes** in the entire document and apply the `show` method to that element(s). Therefore toggling their visibility to `display: block` and showing it.

However, what we are looking for is just to toggle the correct submenu **based on which item was clicked**.

What we need to make this happen is to tell jQuery that based on *which* `a` tag was clicked, we'll first go up to the parent of that particular item – in this case the `li` element – and only within that element, find the matching `submenu` container and apply `show` to it and leave the rest alone.

And that's where `closest` and `find` come into play.
