### What the heck is *this*?

Before we continue, we need to make a pause and talk about an extremely important keyword called `this`.

The `this` keyword is probably one the hardest and trickiest concepts to understand for beginners and experienced developers alike in Javascript.

We won't get too far into *all* of its complexities but just skim the surface so you can focus on common practical uses of using *this* when learning the basics of DOM manipulation with Javascript and jQuery.

Let's use one of our previous examples from the last chapter where we want to use the `toggleClass` jQuery method to add or remove an `active` CSS class to a button that was clicked.

~~~~js
  var buttonNode = $('.btn');

  buttonNode.on('click', function(){
    buttonNode.toggleClass('active');
  });
~~~~

This is one way of writing it. However, you could also write it another way:

~~~~js
  var buttonNode = $('.btn');

  buttonNode.on('click', function(){
    $(this).toggleClass('active');
  });
~~~~

OK, let's break down what's happening above.

Instead of referring to our same declared `buttonNode` variable to toggle a class, we use the keyword `this` wrapped in a jQuery object selector to tell Javascript that we want to add a class to the object **where the event took place**.

In other words, `this` refers to our button node in this particular case, since that's where the click event took place.

Same exact results as before, but a very different way of writing it, right?

You'll see exactly why the `this` keyword is so important and how you'll almost certainly use it in the future in the next lesson.
