### Introducing your new best friend: The browser's console.

But how exactly do we use these "tools" when coding in Javascript?

Pretty easy actually.

Almost all modern browsers today have built-in Javascript "consoles" – a special window where you can run Javascript inside the browser – that allow you to peek under the hood and get a better grasp on what's happening with your code.

To access a browser's Javascript console, simply look in your browser's menu for an item called "Developer Tools". If you use Google Chrome (highly recommended), it can be quickly opened with the shortcut `Command + Option + I` on Macs (or `CTRL + Alt + I` on Windows). 

After you have opened developer tools, look for the "Console" tab and click on it. Here is where any code that you write on a  separate Javascript file can print stuff "behind-the-scenes" without necessarily putting stuff on the actual page itself. 

But *how exactly* do we do that? Well, here's the magic command that will save you hundreds of hours of headaches in the future:

~~~js
console.log('Hello? Is this thing on?');
~~~

You use the `console.log` keyword followed by an opening and closing parenthesis. Now, whatever you outputted to the "Console" tab inside your developer tools.

The value that you can log can be pretty much *anything*: A number, a string, a boolean, etc. 

You can even print variables themselves to do a sanity-check and make sure that the value you are expecting truly is the value that a variable is getting assigned.

This is one of the easiest methods to figure out when something is not working.

I sweat, almost the majority of the time the value you were expecting from your variable is not quite correct, which is exactly why you are getting an error.

Trust me, *this* alone will make you age much more gracefully versus trying to do a brute-force approach at development and then banging your head on the wall for hours until you find the problem by pure luck or having to bug another person to help you.

Let's look at a simple example of how a `console.log` statement works:

~~~js
var firstName = 'John' 
console.log(firstName); // Output: 'John'
~~~

As you can see, I'm able to put in a variable inside the parenthesis of `console.log` and this value will show up under the console tab inside my browser. This way I know that the value I'm expecting is correct before I do anything else with this variable.

I know it may not seem like a big deal right now to log things to the console but trust me when I say that this will become one of your most valuable tools going forward in your Javascript journey when things don't seem to be working as they should.
