### Overwriting the value of a variable

One important thing to keep in mind when defining a variable using the `var` keyword, the value that you set at the beginning of your Javascript file could be replaced with another value down the page where your Javascript code lives.

That's why it's called a *variable* in the first place. Because the value assigned *can* indeed vary after you set it initially. 

In other words, we can *overwrite* that value if we need to. Let's look at an example:

~~~js
var bestFriend = 'Mudasir';
bestFriend = 'Salman'

console.log(bestFriend) // Output: 'Salman'
~~~

In the example above, we are creating a variable called `myName` on the first line and setting its value to the `string` of our best friend in the world: `Mudasir`.

However, an unfortunate set of events goes down between us and Mudasir, and he is no longer our designated best friend. That honor now goes to our new best buddy: `Salman`.

In Javascript, we can **overwrite** the value of our `bestFriend` variable by simple assigning it the new value (in this case, the string of `Salman`). Since Javascript reads all lines of code from top to bottom, by the time our `console.log` gets executed, the value of the `bestFriend` variable has changed from its original value.

Also, notice how we don't have to *re-declare* the variable with the `var` keyword anymore. Since the variable has already been *defined as a variable* using the `var` keyword on the very first line, we are now simply replacing its value with a new value called `Salman`.

You may not understand why this is important now but you will further down the line.