## Looping over an array of items in jQuery

Loops can't just be done on any type of value. Loops only work when you have a list of some sort. For that reason, loops are most commonly used with arrays.

Let's expand on this by using our example from the previous chapter. What if we wanted to loop over each and every item inside our original `fruits` array and modify each and every item somehow?

~~~js
var fruits = ['Apple', 'Mango', 'Pineapple'];

$(fruits).each(function(index, fruitItem){
  // whatever we write inside here will be applied to every member of the array
});
~~~

Well, first we create a jQuery object selection with a list of items in an array. This way we can use jQuery's `each` method which will make looping over things that much easier to write and understand.

We do this by wrapping our original array inside a jQuery object selector (`$`), just like we would any other selection.

But what do we write *inside* the `each` method?

Well, we write a **callback function** that will be executed for **each and every item inside the array or list of items.**

Think of a Javascript loop as a machine in a car factory assembly line.

This machine is the one responsible for using all the parts in front of it and create a fully functional car. Now, even though this machine can do the job that a human being could in a *fraction* of the time, it can only assemble *one car at a time*.

That means that when its ready to start working, it'll queue the conveyor belt to bring in all the parts for the FIRST car to assemble in front of it, start the assembly process, and finally once it's done with that particular vehicle it'll roll it out the assembly line and then resume the conveyor belt to focus now on the SECOND set of car parts in the line.

This keeps going on and on until all cars on the line are fully assembled and rolled out the front door of the factory.

That's exactly what happens in Javascript with loops. We can only evaluate ONE item at a time, but it happens *so* fast it can sometimes trick your brain thinking that everything is happening at once...

However, it's important to realize that it's not. When looping over a list we always focus one ONE thing at a time and then move on to the next item. And we'll continue this process until all items in the list have been looped over.

But what's up with the input parameters `index` and `fruitItem` that we are passing to this callback function inside jQuery's `each` method?

These are two parameters you'll always need to specify when using jQuery's `each` loop. Let's take a look at them.
