## The "current item in the loop queue" parameter
The second parameter refers to the current item being looped over in the array. In this case, we care calling it `fruitItem` but could be named `item` or perhaps `currentFruit` if you want.

I personally like to name it as the singular name of the array of items I'm looping through.

For example, let's say I got an array called `names` that I'm looping through. Since we are hitting a **singular** name as we look at an individual item inside the loop, I'd probably name my second parameter the singular noun `name`. This helps me anchor the idea that each member of the array has a string with an assigned 'name' value.

An important thing to keep in mind is that when we are inside our callback function, the `fruitItem` parameter that's available is only a regular, native Javascript DOM element, NOT a jQuery object selection.

Yes, even though our initial list was created using jQuery, once inside your callback the parameters values that you can access are back to being normal DOM elements.

In other words, if you need to access any of the methods we've already discussed, you'll need to wrap that item inside a jQuery object selection first.

Friendly reminder: Always keep in mind that all these handy jQuery methods we've been talking about are ONLY accessible once you create a jQuery object selection with the `$` symbol.

Example:
~~~js
// Incorrect
$(fruits).each(function(index, fruitItem){
	fruitItem.addClass('active'); // Error
});
~~~

~~~js
// Correct
$(fruits).each(function(index, fruitItem){
	$(fruitItem).addClass('active'); // Correct
});
~~~
