## Creating a jQuery list of node elements

That's all well and good but let's look at real world example using HTML elements. Let's say you need to do something with every `li` item inside a `ul` of todos.

The HTML looks like this:

~~~~html
<ul class="todos">
  <li>Create interactive course</li>
  <li>???</li>
  <li>Profit</li>
</ul>
~~~~


We need to first create a list with all matching `li` node items so we can loop over them and then do something with each one inside our callback function.

As we've mentioned before, keep in mind that when creating a jQuery object selection, if your CSS selector matches with one or more elements, it'll create a *list* instead of just having ONE matched selector.

This means all we have to do to target *all* `li` elements inside our `ul` with class `.todos` is to create a jQuery object with a general CSS selector that will hit all list items inside of our unordered list.

Once we have that, we can access the `each` method and loop over all our todos and print each one to the console as our little "looping assembly robot" puts each list item in the queue for processing and finally rolls it out once there's no more code to run for it inside the callback function.

Important note: The above is not *quite* true as you can also 'force' your robot to quit the current operation early by using a `return` statement to exit of the current item being looped over and go directly to the next one (Remember from one of our earlier lessons that using the `return` statement inside ANY function will immediately push the eject button and exit that function).

~~~~js
var todosList = $('.todos li');

todosList.each(function(index, todo) {
  console.log(todo);
});
~~~~

Since our object selection found 3 `li` items from the HTML example above, the final output you'll end up seeing printed on the console here will be all 3 different `li` nodes in the exact order found (i.e. same order as your HTML).

[Here's another CodePen example](https://codepen.io/johnludena/pen/dyOVYZQ) to help you wrap your mind around the concept of jQuery loops a bit better. As you'll see, I've slowed things down a bit using CSS's transition delay property so you can see how every item being looped over gets an 'active' class and consequently shows a different CSS style.