## IF/ELSE

If/else statements are one of those basic foundational concepts across all programming languages. It's how the browser determines which code blocks to run based on whether a condition has been met or not.

Sometimes understanding everything about if/else can be quite complicated and getting into very muddy waters. We'll try to break down all their parts into simple core ideas in here.

Let's pretend we work at bank and we are writing some code to check a user's bank account balance at the end of the month to show them a message when they login.

Their initial balance was $1000. However, they've made some transactions and now we need to show a different message based on their new adjusted balance.

Let's take a look at how this would look like in the real world:

~~~js
var bankBalance = 2000; // your initial bank balance

// Some code runs here for all the transactions you've charged on your card.

// Now we want to check how much money you got at the end of the month and output a message to the console
if (bankBalance >= 1000) {
  console.log("Nice job saving your money!");
} else if (bankBalance === 1000) {
  console.log("Good job, $1000 is a great milestone!")
} else if (bankBalance >=1 && bankBalance < 1000) {
  console.log("Oh-oh, better start saving more just in case.")
} else if (bankBalance === 0 {
  console.log("You got zero money.")
} else {
	console.log("Emergency! Your account is overdrawn!");
}
~~~


In the example above, we are checking whether the variable `savingsAccountBalance` is the following:
- Greater than 1000
- Equals to 1000
- Between 1 and 1000
- Exactly zero
- Less than zero (yikes!)

To do a conditional check, we use the keyword `if` followed by an opening and closing parenthesis (`()`) where we place the condition we want to check for –followed by an opening and closing curly brackets (`{}`) where we'll write the code we want to run if that condition is met.

When we have multiple conditions to check for, we keep repeating the same pattern except we use the `else if` statement for the second condition onwards. We can also use a sort of 'default' condition that will be run if none of the above conditions are met by simply using the `else` keyword at the very end.

The way we can check for any condition in Javascript is done with something called **comparison operators**. Don't worry, this is basic math 101:

- The **greater than** operator (`>`) returns true if the value on the left is greater than the value on the right, otherwise it returns false.
- The **less than** operator (`<`) returns true if the value on the left is less than the value on the right, otherwise it returns false.
- The ***equals to*** operator (`===`) returns true if the value on the left is equal to the value on the right, otherwise it returns false. Remember that this is not the same as a single `=` in Javascript. A single equals **assigns a value**, like when you are creating a variable. Three equals **compares two values**. Very different but a common beginner mistake.
- The ***not equals to*** operator (`!==`) returns true if the value on the left is NOT equal to the value on the right, otherwise it returns false. Pretty much the exact opposite of the one above.
- The **greater than or equal to** operator (`>=`)  returns true if the value on the left is greater than or equal to the value on the right, otherwise it returns false.
- The **less than or equal to** operator (`<=`) returns true if the value on the left is less than or equal to the value on the right, otherwise it returns false.

The important things to keep in mind here is that Javascript will check each and every `if` statement and `else if` statement until it finds the FIRST statement that evaluates to `true`, at which point it'll execute that particular block of code inside the curly brackets and then move on down the page to continue executing the rest of our code.

If no match is found, and 'if/else' block will always default to the final `else` statement instead. In our example above, if our `savingsAccountBalance` ever goes into the negative numbers (remember this is also a valid number value in Javascript), it'll run that last `else` code block instead.