## The 'or' and 'and' operators

Also note that we can check for multiple conditions inside an `if` or `else if` statement to make sure multiple conditions are true on the same line before executing a particular block of code.

We use the `||` (called `or` operator in Javascript) to literally say the following: If either *this thing* outputs true OR *this other thing* also outputs a `true` value, execute that particular block of code. With the `or` operator, you can check as many conditions as you need, and as long as ONLY ONE of those hits true, your code will be executed.

On the other hand, whenever we use the `&&` (called the `and` operator), ALL conditions must evaluate `true` in order for your code block to run. If even JUST ONE of the conditions fails (evaluates to `false`), Javascript will simply skip that block and keep moving down the page towards the next if statement block if there is one. Otherwise it'll run the final `else` block as a default like we mentioned above.

Here's a another example:

~~~js

var name = 'John';
var superNerd = true;

if (name === 'John' && superNerd === true) {
  console.log("That's definitely John.");
} else if (name === 'John' || superNerd === true) {
  console.log("Mmm... could be John.")
} else if (name !== 'John' && superNerd === false) {
  console.log("Definitely not John.")
} else {
  console.log("I don't know that person. Better not say hi.")
}
~~~

It's important to keep in mind that Javascript evaluates each and every if/else block from top to bottom and will execute and exit as soon as a match is found.

In our case, because my name is indeed `John` and I'm the total nerd writing this entire thing, the very FIRST `if` block will run because it meets both requirements -- since we are using the 'and' operator (`&&`) as our check.

However, pretend we have the following values in our variables instead.

~~~js

var name = 'Unknown';
var superNerd = true;

if (name === 'John' && superNerd === true) {
  console.log("That's definitely John.");
} else if (name === 'John' || superNerd === true) {
  console.log("Mmm... could be John.")
} else if (name !== 'John' && superNerd === false) {
  console.log("Definitely not John.")
} else {
  console.log("I don't know that person. Better not wave.")
}
~~~

Our very first `if` statement block will NOT get executed because both comparison checks are not true (or 'truthy' as they are often called when talking about if/else block statements). And since we are using the `&&` operator, both statements need to result in a `true` value as mentioned above.

Instead, Javascript will skip to the next `else if` statement and even though the `name` variable still DOES NOT match, the `boolean` value for our `superNerd` variable is indeed true, so our second block of code will get executed instead since we are using the `||` operator and we only need one value to evaluate to `true`.

