# Learn Javascript and jQuery By Playing a Puzzle Game!

## Setup: Learning the basics of Javascript + jQuery as either a front-end designer can be a life-changing skill.
- Talk about all the possibilities of working in vastly different industries MAKING cool stuff (marketing agencies, software builing an app, creating games, even VR!)
  - Imagine working for a marketing agency that gets to build an amazing Apple-style product landing page with lots of interactivity and things that really make their users say: "Woah, that was awesome" as they scroll down the page. And then scroll back up again just to experience it again.
  - Or perhaps imagine working in your local city's hot startup where you'll get to build an innovate new product with a very polished and refined UI and UX eperience.
  - Or maybe you simply want to continue to play games and get paid to do that? How about finding a career in building games for a living? Whether those are indie games, VR games, or perhaps working at a AAA gaming studio -- Tthe programming principles we'll learn here are universal and language-independent. They'll easily carry over to a new language if you ever want to learn one.

- Talk about the massive financial opportunity to completely overhaul your financial life. Mention perhaps small example from living at home being broke as a freelance web designer to being able to build unique web experiences with ease with 100% confidence and being paid a six-figure compensation for it.
- Mention jQuery is still being used in OVER 90% of all websites today (cite reputable source) and Javascript is the hottest language in the market in 2021. (cite another strong study from Indeed or job board)


## Plot: Learning Javascript as a newbie is harder today than it was in the past before all these new Pokemon-sounding web tools and JS frameworks came around.

- Shit has gotten WAYYY out of hand with all the tools, frameworks, and other JS-based things when it comes to building things for the web. There's a new tool everyday it seems and just trying to learn a new JS tool or framework *itself* without first learning good fundamentals is simply a bad career strategy.
- 95% of YouTube tutorials are dry, boring, and run for hours without being edited so you can't learn practical knowledge quickly and efficiently. And they are just simply no fun. On the other complete opposite of the expectrum, actual experts recording short screencasts assume you already know how to use the ES6 flavor of Javascript because it's shorter syntax and fast, but also the *least* readable version of Javascript so far and go WAY too fast for beginners to even comprehend what the hell is going on half the time. It's almost like they've all forgot what it was like to be a complete newbie at one point.
- For people that are jumping straight to try and learn React.js with zero programming experience just because it's "the new hotness", what they are doing is like trying to ride a motorcycle without knowing how to ride a bike. React is amazing, for more experienced developers. As a newbie, you are simply gonna have a bad time if you try do learn it without proper fundamentals and an easy to grasp concepts like a combination of plain Javascript and the jQuery library. [SHOW SET OF EMOJIS: jQuery: tricycle, JS: bike, React: motorcycle]


## Point: Learning by playing is the key. Like building an image puzzle(?), you do it one piece at a time starting with the easy wins.
- Talk about FACTS regarding gamification and interactivity as a learning system to make Javascript finally click for you.
- Talk about how we'll use a 80/20 strategy to teach your solid fundamentals and jQuery special recipes for creating almost any type of interactivity you'd ever need when creating something for the web.
- We'll show you real browser feedback that you could get while running that very same Javascript on your own projects. I'll show you how to start reading error messages to cut your debugging by a *large* amount.
- No super technical jargon or computer-sciency mumbo-jumbo here. The words "Foo" and "bar" are hereby banned from this point on. Carry on.



 *GET STARTED NOW BUTTON*