## Variables

Variables are a fairly simple concept to understand, but since the introduction of ES6, things have changed a bit and this can throw a curveball for newbies when first learning about creating variables and assigning them values in Javascript.

I'm talking of course about the new keywords `let` and `const` that can be used in addition to `var` -- and which makes things overly complicated when you are first learning the basics.

The keyword `var` stands for *variable* (as you might've guessed) and **it's how we can store values in Javascript**. We create a variable and assign a certain value to it.

A value in this case can be anything from:

### A number 
Numbers of any kind can be stored in a Javascript variable, including negative numbers! Let's look at our first ever example:

~~~js
var roundNumber = 10;
~~~

Since you are popping your cherry in the world of programming here, let's break down a bit about what's happening above.

The keyword `var` is used to create a variable called `roundNumber` and we **assign it** the value of 10 with the `=` sign.

At the very end of the line, you'll also see a `;`. This tells Javascript that this is the end of the line and to go ahead and move on to the next one.

Side note: A quick note about the naming convention for our variables. In the world of Javascript programming, it's good practice to use a *camel case* style of writing variable names for their better readability.

### A string

A character, words or entire paragraphs can be assigned as a `string` value. Here's a couple of examples:

~~~js
var favoriteBookTitle = "The Alchemist";
var myName = 'John';
~~~

We use the exact same formatting as with numbers, except strings are always surrounded by quotes. Either *double* or *single* quotes will work here.


### A boolean

Our third type is what we call a `boolean` and it refers to a simple `true` or `false` value. Think of the most primitive language that computers understand: either 1 or 0.

~~~js
var boredStatus = false;
var excitedStatus = true;
~~~


There are a couple of others but we'll discuss those a bit later.

That same variable name can then be used instead of the value and we can use it to create our programming logic.

When using the `var` keyword, a value that you set at the beginning of your Javascript file *could* be overwritten further down the page. This is the same when using `let`, but NOT `const`. The keyword 'const' (stands for *constant*) will throw an error as it's not a variable type that can be overwritten. That's really the only major difference between those 3 variable declarations.

If you want to feel like one of the cool ES6 kids, feel free to the keyword 'let' instead of 'var' in your variable declarations and it would be the exact same thing. However, I'd recommend NOT to. I believe it's better for your brain to grasp some of these earlier concepts if you just the keyword `var` to re-inforce the idea that these are simply **variables** where we store some kind of value.