## Functions

Functions are like recipes. They are just a set of steps that we are grouping together and can call at any time by actually 'running' or 'invoking' said function.

Functions are great because they help us keep our code organized and prevent us from having duplicate code to achieve the same thing over and over again.

The problem is that with the rise of ES6 and its fancy arrow syntax, it has completely replaced the keyword `function` itself, really forcing your brain to always stop for a second and figure out what this strange hierogliphics(sp?) are before you understand what is happening.

This has been one place where Javascript has gone one step forward, but two steps back when it comes to adoption by others. So while you still have your training wheels on, we'll focus on writing out functions the ol' fashioned way.

This is what a function looks like:

~~~js
function sayHello(){
  // inside this safe space we'll write out our instructions to the browser to open a modal  
}

sayHello(); // and this how we'll call our function when we are ready, but more on that later.
~~~

As you can see, we use the keyword `function` followed by the name we want to use for our new function. This is followed by an opening `()` and then an opening `{` where all the steps in our function will reside before closing everything up with a `}`.

While you can name your function whatever you like, it's good practice and a courtesy to your fellow developers to name the function as a *verb* that describes exactly what your function does. And just like variables, we use [camel case formatting](http://www.google.com) for our function names. [**SHOULD BE MENTIONED IN VAR CHAPTER**]

That's all great and all, but your function's contents will never see the light of the day unless the function is actually triggered. In Javascript land, this is referred to as calling, running -- or when you are feeling super nerdy -- invoking a function.

Calling a function is simply done by using the name of the function immediately followed by an opening and closing `()`.

A function can also work like a pipeline that can take one or more values, and return one at the end. How exactly does that work? Let's look at this example:

~~~js
function sayHello(yourName){
  return 'Hi, my name is ' + yourName;
}

sayHello('John');
~~~

In our modified `sayHello` function, we now take a value *input* that we'll call `yourName` on one end of the pipeline. This input is called a `parameter` in Javascript. At the other end of the pipeline, this function will do its thing and then return that value as part of the sentence "Hi, ny name is ..." and add the name value at the end.

And *how* do we exactly shove a value down the input side of the function pipeline? You probably guessed it by now, but when you run your function and pass it a value insde the opening and closing `()`, *this* is the exact same value that will be passed down to our specialized pipeline for processing and becomes the `yourName` parameter value.






