## Callback Functions
Ok, I lied. One more thing that's pretty important in Javascript-land when it comes to functions. And that's the tricky callback function. 

These can be tough to wrap your mind around in the beginning, but just think of it as this: A callback function is just a regular ol' function that triggers ONLY after another function is called.

Let's go back to our button example that triggers a modal. What's the next step to make this happen? The next step is to set a 'callback' function to be run ONLY AFTER the user triggers the button with a click event:

~~~html
<button class="btn">learn more</button>
~~~

~~~~js
var buttonNode = $('.btn');

buttonNode.on('click', function(){
  // we are now inside our callback function, the steps we put here will run AFTER the user clicks on the button
});
~~~~

If you are a sharp observer, you'll realized that we have TWO functions here:
  - One is the `on()` function (technically a `method` as it's a function inside an object).
  - The other is our shy anonymous function that's passed as a *second parameter* inside the `on()` function.

Does that make sense? If it doesn't, let's write it another way: Let's first assign our shy anonymous function a name an then pass that as our callback function to our on click event.

~~~js
var buttonNode = $('.btn');

function triggerModalPopup(){
  // instructions here to open our super secret modal popup
}

buttonNode.on('click', triggerModalPopup);
~~~

Make more sense now? Either way is a valid way to write it. As long as it makes sense to you  -- and doesn't make your fellow developers hate you too much -- they are both perfectly acceptable ways of using callback functions.

Just remember that at then of the day, a callback function is a function that gets triggered inside another function.